So if you gave the form an action to
a specific URL, do you need to do
anything inside the action loader to
respond to that specified action case?
>> Yeah, so
I think I understand the question, so
you can say action API new post, okay.
So if you wanted to do that then you'd
go into your routes you'd make API and
new-post.tsx.
And then you basically just take
your action code that you have here,
we just paste there.
Bringing all the stuff which we, aw,
the heck with it, let's just do it.
Hopefully it works,
okay, bring all this in.
Okay, cool, so
now we'll just get rid of that.
Yeah, this type of action isn't gonna be
happening, you'd have to import it and
all that, that's why we don't do this.
But we can create a new post, and kaboom!
Man, I messed something up,
I don't know what went wrong.
But that's basically how you would
accomplish this, is you just make
a separate file that has the same route
as the action URL that you're providing.
And then yeah, all of your
action code would just go there.
Hopefully I understood that question,
I might have misunderstood
the question though.
>> So you moved the action code to its own
file matching the action paths specified?
>> Yes.
>> I think I got it, yeah.
>> Exactly.
Cool, yes?
>> This isn't the final extra credit too
but could you explain on the pic work so
that you can type the create post action.
>> Yes, so right now create posts just
accepts any, which is not very useful.
What we really want is to have
something like this, right?
That's what copilot wants us to do.
But I don't wanna change this if I
ever update my model to say, hey,
now markdown is now content, or
markdown is now whatever, right?
So to both make it easier for
me maintenance wise in the future, and
also communicate what these actually is,
this isn't just any old title,
this is a post title, which is special.
Then I'm going to say, I want to pick a
couple of properties off of the post type.
And so, we actually have a type
called Post from the prisma/client,
the prisma/client gets updated
as we update our model.
And so we have all of the types for
our model.
And so we want whoever is calling
create posts to give us a post, but
we don't have all of the properties.
Like see, this is gonna complain
because we're missing the ID and or
the created at and
various other properties.
And so we don't want all of them, we just
want the title, so I get marked down.
So we're going to use a special generic
type from TypeScript called Pick,
and it's going to say okay,
what do you want me to pick types from?
And so
I wanna pick types from the post, and
the types that I want are title,
slug and markdown.
Does that answer your question?
Cool.
>> That's nicer than using partial.
>> Yeah, yeah, I think it's quite handy.
There are some really amazing generics
that are built into TypeScript.
Recently, we got one called Awaited,
or yeah, I think it's awaited,
which is pretty rad.
It allows you to unwrap a promise and
my own utility for it for that,
maybe it's called Await, I can't remember.
And we used to use that a lot until
we got this handy piece of work, and
now we don't need to use that as much.
Okay, so now this is complaining, so
I'm glad you asked that cuz I
was part of the extra credit.
We need to do a little bit of extra work,
because remember
how I said that this could
be a form data entry value?
Well, it could, so
we need to make sure that it's a string.
So what we're going to
do is say invariant.
Invariant is this handy little utility,
this package called tiny
invariant that we're using.
I think invariant as a library was made
popular by the React project actually,
that was the first time I saw that.
And I think they have their
own implementation, but
somebody built a tiny invariant,
so it's a little smaller.
But what this allows you to do is it's
just a function where you give it some
sort of predicate as the first argument,
and then the second argument
is the error message I want thrown if
this predicate is not true, okay, so.
And then it integrates really
nicely with TypeScript as well,
so I can say type of title does not equal,
or is equal to a string,
and title must be a string.
And then we'll do the same for
our slug and our markdown.
And so now, TypeScript knows
that it can't get to this line,
if any of these is not a string,
and so that'll just be thrown.
And we could probably do some
extra stuff if we wanted to give
the user some helpful error message or
something.
But if we get to this point and those
are not strings, then somebody is doing
something nefarious, so
I don't care about them anyway, so.
So we're good, cool, any other questions?
Yeah?
>> Yeah, I got one,
would maybe be strategy for doing like
client side validation for form field?
>> Yeah, great question.
In fact, somebody just asked me that
this morning, so, or maybe it was last.
First of all, I wanna call out something
that actually is really awesome.
I can extract this to a function and
say validate title,
so where did that function go?
Validate title, boom, and yeah,
sure, we'll take FormDataEntryValue.
And now, whatever this validation logic
is, whether I could have a min and max and
all that stuff, I can use that both in
my server code and in my client code.
So that's neat, we can actually do
code sharing across this boundary.
Now of course, if you're doing accessing
the database in here or something like
that's not gonna fly, but you could
make a resource route that does that.
But yeah, so now we can use that,
how do we use that?
For that sort of thing you aren't
going to need to use state,
to manage that, and so you just say,
use state, titleError.
And then yeah, your initial title
error would probably be nothing,
or I guess it'd be action
data errors.title.
And then from there, you would have to
synchronize anytime the user submits
the form, you'd probably use a use effect
or you could probably put it in the.
Yeah, I probably use a use affect any time
the action data changes, you'll go and
call set title error to
whatever the server sent back.
And then as the user is typing you
can set title.error to whatever.
But this is the cool thing, and this is
what we're gonna talk about in our next
exercise, is that doing that does not make
the rest of it more complicated, right?
It's just an additive thing to make
the user experience a little bit better.
We'll talk about that more.